1. No Biography Found
2. No Biography Found
3. Sergey Levine received a BS and MS in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2009, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2014. He joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley in fall 2016. His work focuses on machine learning for decision making and control, with an emphasis on deep learning and reinforcement learning algorithms. Applications of his work include autonomous robots and vehicles, as well as computer vision and graphics. His research includes developing algorithms for end-to-end training of deep neural network policies that combine perception and control, scalable algorithms for inverse reinforcement learning, deep reinforcement learning algorithms, and more.
4. No Biography Found
5. No Biography Found
6. Narges Norouzi received her Ph.D. and M.A.Sc. in The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering in 2017 and 2014, respectively, from the University of Toronto, Canada. She also received her B.A.Sc. from Sharif University of Technology in 2012. Her research interests include Computational Biology, Biometric Systems, Machine Learning, Statistical Signal Processing with applications in Image Processing, Pattern Recognition, and Adaptive Systems.
7. Sylvia Ratnasamy is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley, whose work focuses on the design and implementation of networked systems. She received her PhD in Computer Science from U.C.Berkeley in 2002 and a Bachelors in Computer Engineering from the University of Pune, India, in 1997.   She is a recipient of the ACM Grace Murray Hopper award, the ACM SIGCOMM Test-of-Time award, the ACM SIGCOMM Rising Star award and the Alfred P. Sloan research fellowship.
8. Koushik Sen is a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. His research interest lies in Software Engineering, Programming Languages, and Formal methods. He is interested in developing software tools and methodologies that improve programmer productivity and software quality. He is best known for his work on directed automated random testing and concolic testing. He received the C.L. and Jane W-S. Liu Award in 2004, the C. W. Gear Outstanding Graduate Award in 2005, and the David J. Kuck Outstanding Ph.D. Thesis Award in 2007 from the UIUC Department of Computer Science. He has received a NSF CAREER Award in 2008, a Haifa Verification Conference (HVC) Award in 2009, a IFIP TC2 Manfred Paul Award for Excellence in Software: Theory and Practice in 2010, and a Sloan Foundation Fellowship in 2011. He has won three ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Awards. He holds a B.Tech from Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and M.S. and Ph.D. in CS from University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
9. Matei Zaharia is an Associate Professor of EECS at Berkeley and a Cofounder and CTO of Databricks. He started the Apache Spark open source project during his PhD at UC Berkeley in 2009, and has worked broadly on other widely used data and AI software, including Delta Lake, MLflow, Dolly and ColBERT. He currently works on a variety of research projects in cloud computing, database management, AI and information retrieval. Matei’s research was recognized through the 2014 ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award, an NSF CAREER Award, and the US Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE).
10. John DeNero is the Giancarlo Teaching Fellow in the UC Berkeley EECS department. He joined the Cal faculty in 2014 to focus on undergraduate education in computer science and data science. He teaches and co-develops two of the largest courses on campus: introductory computer science for majors and introductory data science. He is the author of Composing Programs and co-author of Computational and Inferential Thinking, two online textbooks. His research focuses both on natural language processing and computer science education. He received his Masters in Philosophy from Stanford University and his PhD in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from UC Berkeley in 2010. Prior to becoming a professor, John was a senior research scientist at Google working primarily on Google Translate and natural language processing.
11. David Wagner earned an A. B. in Mathematics from Princeton, and M.S./Ph.D. degrees from UC Berkeley where he was advised by Eric Brewer.  His research interests include computer security, systems security, usable security, and program analysis for security. He has previously worked on security for wearable devices, smartphone security, software security, electronic voting, wireless security, sensor network security, and applied cryptography.  He has published two books and over 90 peer-reviewed scientific papers.
12. I am an associate professor in the EECS department at UC Berkeley and a founding member of the new UC Berkeley RISE Lab. My research interests are at the intersection of machine learning and data systems and my students are working on a wide range of projects including: real-time model serving; machine learning life-cycle management;  accelerated deep learning for computer vision; new cryptographic primitives for federated learning; frameworks for deep reinforcement learning and parameter tuning; model based cloud resource management; software platforms for autonomous vehicles research; computational efficient representations for asynchronous time series; smf frameworks for graph query processing.
13. No Biography Found
14. Moritz Hardt is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. His research aims to make the practice of machine learning more robust, reliable, and aligned with societal values. After obtaining a PhD in Computer Science from Princeton University in 2011, Hardt was a postdoctoral scholar and research staff member at IBM Research Almaden, followed by two years as a research scientist at Google Research and Google Brain.
15. No Biography Found
16. No Biography Found
17. Mekhail Anwar is an Associate Professor in Residence in the Radiation Oncology Department at UCSF, with an affiliate appointment in our department. Professor Anwar's research areas include many areas within the broad area of electronic circuits and devices.
18. No Biography Found
19. John Chuang is a Full Professor at the School of Information, with an affiliate appointment in EECS. His research interests are in biosensory computing (brainwave authentication, human factors in wearable computing) and information economics and policy (network economics, peer production, security and privacy). He is Co-Director of the BioSENSE Lab, a multidisciplinary research team studying the application potentials and stewardship challenges of ubiquitous biosensing technologies. He is also affiliated with the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC), the Berkeley Institute for Data Science (BIDS), and the Team for Research in Ubiquitous Secure Technology (TRUST). He received his Ph.D. in Engineering and Public Policy from Carnegie Mellon University, M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, and graduated summa cum laude in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California.
20. Ali Ghodsi received his PhD in 2006 from KTH/Royal Institute of Technology in the area of Distributed Computing. His research interests include distributed systems, cloud computing, big data computing, and networking.
21. Paul R. Gray received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona, Tucson, in 1963, 1965, and 1969, respectively. In 1969 he joined the Research and Development Laboratory at Fairchild Semiconductor in Palo Alto, California. While there, he was involved in the application of new technologies for analog integrated circuits, including power integrated circuits and data conversion circuits. In 1971, he joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at U.C. Berkeley, where he is now a Professor Emeritus. His research interests have included bipolar and MOS circuit design, electro-thermal interactions in integrated circuits, device modeling, telecommunications circuits, and analog-digital interfaces in VLSI systems.
22. Chunlei Liu is a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, and the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute at the University of California, Berkeley. He received a B.S. in Physics from Peking University, a M.S. in Physics from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. Before joining UC Berkeley, he was an Associate Professor of Radiology and Biomedical Engineering at Duke University. His current research interests are brain imaging and modulation. He develops MRI and signal processing techniques to study brain structure and function. His group also works on technologies for remote modulation of neuronal activities. He received NIH Pathway to Independence Award (K99) in 2006, ISMRM Young Investigator Award finalist in 2007 and RSNA Margulis Award in 2015. In 2021, he was elected Fellow of ISMRM and Fellow of AIMBE (American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering).
23. Ken Goldberg supervises research in Robotics and Automation.  Ken holds dual degrees in Electrical Engineering and Economics from the University of Pennsylvania (1984) and a PhD from Carnegie Mellon University (1990). He joined the UC Berkeley faculty in 1995 and is Professor of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, with secondary appointments in EECS, the School of Information, Art Practice, and the UCSF Dept of Radiation Oncology. Ken and his co-authors have published over 300 peer-reviewed technical papers on algorithms for robotics, automation, and social information filtering, and he holds ten U.S. patents. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the : (T-ASE), Co-Founder of the Berkeley Center for New Media, Co-Founder and CTO of Ambidextrous Robotics, Co-Founder of the Moxie Institute, and Founding Director of UC Berkeley's Art, Technology, and Culture Lecture Series.
24. No Biography Found
25. No Biography Found
26. Dr. Marti Hearst is a professor in the School of Information at UC Berkeley, with a zero-percent appointment in the Computer Science Division. Her primary research interests are user interfaces for search engines, information visualization, natural language processing, and MOOCs. She wrote the first book on Search User Interfaces.
27. No Biography Found
28. Rikky Muller, PhD is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley where she holds the S. Shankar Sastry Professorship in Emerging Technologies. She received her BS and Meng degrees from MIT and her PhD from UC Berkeley all in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. She is currently Co-director of the Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC), a Core Member of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses (CNEP) and an Investigator at the Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub. Dr. Muller was previously an IC designer at Analog Devices, and was the co-founder of Cortera Neurotechnologies, Inc. (acq.), a medical device company focused on closed-loop deep brain stimulation technology. Her research group focuses on emerging implantable and wearable medical devices and in developing low-power, wireless microelectronic and integrated systems for neurological applications. She was named one of MIT Tech Review’s 35 global innovators under 35 (TR35) and Boston MedTech’s 40 healthcare innovators under 40. She is the recipient of the National Academy of Engineering Gilbreth Lectureship, the NSF CAREER Award, the Keysight Early Career Professorship, the McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award, and the IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society New Frontier Award. She is a Bakar Fellow, a Hellman Fellow, and a Distinguished Lecturer for the Solid-State Circuits Society.
29. No Biography Found
30. Yi Ma received his B.S. degree in Automation and Applied Mathematics from Tsinghua University, China in 1995, an M.S. degree in EECS in 1997, an M.A. degree in Mathematics in 2000, and a Ph.D. in EECS in 2000 all from UC Berkeley. He was on the faculty of ECE Department of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign from 2000 to 2011. He was the manager of the Visual Computing Group and a principal researcher of Microsoft Research in Asia from 2009 to 2013. He was then a founding professor and the executive dean of the School of Information Science and Technology of ShanghaiTech University from 2014 to 2017. He joins the faculty of EECS of UC Berkeley in 2018. You may find a more detailed biography from the website at:
31. No Biography Found
32. Alistair Sinclair received his B.A. in Mathematics from St. John's College, University of Cambridge in 1979, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Edinburgh in 1988.  Prior to joining the Computer Science Division at Berkeley, he held a faculty position at Edinburgh and visiting positions at  the Center for Discrete Mathematics and Computer Science (DIMACS) and the International Computer Science Institute, Berkeley.  Sinclair was the recipient of the Goedel Prize in 1996, and the Fulkerson Prize in 2006.
33. Jeffrey Bokor is the Paul R. Gray Distinguished Professor of Engineering in the department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at UC Berkeley, with a joint appointment as Senior Scientist in the Materials Science Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. He currently serves as Chair of the EECS Department.  From 2012-2017, he served as Associate Dean for Research in the UC Berkeley College of Engineering. From 2004 until 2012, Prof. Bokor held a joint appointment as Deputy Director for Science at the Molecular Foundry, a nanoscale science research center at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories (LBNL). He received the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1975, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 1976 and 1980, respectively. From 1980 to 1993, he was at AT&T Bell Laboratories where he did research on a variety of topics in laser science, as well as semiconductor physics and technology, and held several management positions. He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1993. His current research activities include nanomagnetics/spintronics, carbon nanotube and graphene electronics, nanophotonics, and nano-electromechanical systems. He is a fellow of IEEE, APS, and OSA.
34. Lisa Yan is an Assistant Teaching Professor in EECS starting Spring 2022. Her current research interests are applications of machine learning and data analysis techniques to student programming assignments in large computer science courses. Her previous research was in software-defined networking and performance of network switches.
35. Sarah E. Chasins joined the EECS faculty in 2020. Her research focuses on programming languages and program synthesis, with an emphasis on work that brings together programming systems, HCI, and data science.
36. Shyam Parekh received his Ph.D. in EECS from UC Berkeley. His research interests are in the architecture, optimization and performance aspects of both wired and wireless Communication Networks. Recently, he has been investigating the analytic issues related to the evolving paradigms of SDN, NFV and data-plane programming. He is the co-author of "Communication Networks: A Concise Introduction" (Morgan & Claypool, First Edition (2010), Second Edition (2018)), and a co-editor of "Quality of Service Architectures for Wireless Networks: Performance Metrics and Management" (Information Science Reference, 2010). He was a co-chair of the Application Working Group (AWG) of the WiMAX Forum during 2008-09.
37. Katherine (Kathy) Yelick has been a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley since 1991 and has held a joint research appointment at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (Berkeley Lab) since 1996 where she is currently the Associate Laboratory Director (ALD) for Computing Sciences.  Her research focuses on parallel programming languages, automatic performance tuning, performance analysis, parallel algorithms, and optimizing compilers, and she currently leads the Berkeley Unified Parallel C (UPC) project and co-leads the Berkeley Benchmarking and Optimization (Bebop) group. As the ALD for CS at Berkeley Lab, she oversees the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC), the Energy Sciences Network (ESnet) and the Computational Research Division (CRD), which covers applied math, computer science, data science and computational science.  She was leader of the Future Technologies Group from 2005 through 2007 and the NERSC Director from 2008 through 2012.
38. He received his B.Tech in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, 1980, a M.S. in EE from UC Berkeley, 1982, a M.A. in Mathematics, UC Berkeley, 1983, a C.Phil in Mathematics, UC Berkeley, 1984 and a Ph.D. in EE, UC Berkeley, 1986.  Prior to joining the faculty of EECS in 1994, he was a member of the faculty at Cornell University.
39. My interests lie in the intersection of Machine Learning and Precision Medicine. I believe that algorithmic innovation can create more precise and equitable healthcare.  Towards this goal, my research focuses on designing modeling approaches that are robust to data-generation biases, offer safe-guards for clinical deployment and can adapt to diverse clinical requirements. My previous work has contributed to three areas: 1) predicting future cancer risk, 2) designing personalized screening policies and 3) private data sharing through neural obfuscation. My tools are implemented at multiple hospital systems around the world, and underlie prospective clinical trials. The ultimate goal of these efforts is to change the standard of care.
40. No Biography Found
41. Gopala Anumanchipalli received a B.Tech and MS in Computer Science from IIIT Hyderabad in 2008, and a Ph.D in Language and Information Technologies from Carnegie Mellon University, and a Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering from IST, Lisbon. After Postdoctoral training and being a Full Researcher at Dept. of Neurosurgery at UCSF, he joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley in Spring 2021 and continues to hold an adjunct position at Dept. of Neurosurgery at UC San Francisco. He works at the intersection of  Speech Processing, Neuroscience, and Artificial Intelligence with an emphasis on human-centered speech and Assistive technologies, including new paradigms for bio-inspired spoken language technologies, automated methods for early diagnosis, characterizing and rehabilitating disordered speech. With colleagues at UCSF, he also develops methods to advance our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying speech/ language function in healthy people and Brain-Computer Interfaces to externally decode speech and language directly from the brain to augment lost function in paralyzed patients.
42. Yun S. Song is a professor of EECS and Statistics working in mathematical and computational biology.  Recent honors and awards include NIH Pathway to Independence Award K99/R00 (2006), Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2008), Packard Fellowship for Science and Engineering (2008), NSF CAREER Award (2009), Jim and Donna Gray Faculty Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching (2013), Miller Research Professorship (2014), Math+X Simons Chair (2015), and Chan Zuckerberg Biohub Investigator Award (2017)
43. Sanjit A. Seshia is the Cadence Founders Chair Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. He received an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University, and a B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. His research interests are in formal methods for dependable and secure computing, with a current focus on the areas of cyber-physical systems, computer security, machine learning, and robotics. He has made pioneering contributions to the areas of satisfiability modulo theories (SMT), SMT-based verification, and inductive program synthesis. He is co-author of a widely-used textbook on embedded, cyber-physical systems and has led the development of technologies for cyber-physical systems education based on formal methods. His awards and honors include a Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, the Frederick Emmons Terman Award for contributions to electrical engineering and computer science education, the Donald O. Pederson Best Paper Award for the IEEE Transactions on CAD, the IEEE Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Systems (TCCPS) Mid-Career Award, and the Computer-Aided Verification (CAV) Award. He is a Fellow of the ACM and the IEEE.
44. No Biography Found
45. Dr. Conolly is a Full Professor of Bioengineering and Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley, where he holds the Montford G. Cook Endowed Chair. He was elected Chair of the UC Berkeley-UCSF Joint Graduate Group in Bioengineering from 2006-2009. He currently serves as Vice Chair of Instruction in BioE at UC Berkeley.
46. Dr. Subramanian received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Louisiana State University, 1994, and his M.S. and PhD in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1996 and 1998 respectively.
47. No Biography Found
48. Somayeh Sojoudi is an Assistant Professor in the Departments of Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences and Mechanical Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. She received her PhD degree in Control & Dynamical Systems from California Institute of Technology in 2013. She has been working on several interdisciplinary problems in optimization theory, control theory, machine learning, and power systems. She is an Associate Editor for the journals of the IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, Systems & Control Letters, IEEE Access, and IEEE Open Journal of Control Systems. She is also a member of the conference editorial board of the IEEE Control Systems Society. She has received several awards, including NSF CAREER Award, ONR Young Investigator Award, INFORMS Optimization Society Prize for Young Researchers, INFORMS Energy Best Publication Award, INFORMS Data Mining Best Paper Award, and Best-of-the-Best conference paper award of IEEE Power & Energy Society General Meeting. She has also received several best student conference paper awards (as advisor or co-author) from the Control Systems Society and INFORMS.
49. Björn Hartmann is an Associate Professor in EECS. He received a BA in Communication, a BSE in Digital Media Design, and an MSE in Computer and Information Science from the University of Pennsylvania in 2002. He received his PhD degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2009. His research in Human-Computer Interaction focuses on the creation and evaluation of user interface design tools, end-user programming environments, and crowdsourcing systems.
Björn received an Okawa Research Grant and an NSF CAREER Award in 2012, and a Sloan Research Fellowship in 2013.
50. Eric Paulos is the founder and director of the Hybrid Ecologies Lab, a Professor in Electrical Engineering Computer Science Department at UC Berkeley, Director of the Master of Design (MDes) program, Director of the CITRIS Invention Lab, Associate Director of the Jacobs Institute for Design Innovation, a Co-Director of the Swarm Lab, and faculty within the Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM).
51. Shankar Sastry received his B.Tech. from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, 1977, a M.S. in EECS, M.A. in Mathematics and Ph.D. in EECS from UC Berkeley, 1979, 1980, and 1981 respectively. He holds faculty appointments in the Departments of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Bioengineering, and Mechanical Engineering, and served as dean of the College of Engineering from 2007 to 2018. He was formerly the Director of CITRIS (Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society) and the Banatao Institute @ CITRIS Berkeley. He served as chair of the EECS department from January, 2001 through June 2004. In 2000, he served as Director of the Information Technology Office at DARPA. From 1996-1999, he was the Director of the Electronics Research Laboratory at Berkeley, an organized research unit on the Berkeley campus conducting research in computer sciences and all aspects of electrical engineering. He is the NEC Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holds faculty appointments in the Departments of Bioengineering, EECS and Mechanical Engineering.
52. I'm an assistant professor in the School of Information at UC Berkeley, where I work on applying natural language processing and machine learning to empirical questions in the humanities and social sciences. My research often involves adding linguistic structure (e.g., syntax, semantics, coreference) to statistical models of text. As such, I'm especially interested in developing core NLP techniques for a variety of languages and domains (e.g., literary text, social media). Before Berkeley, I received my PhD at Carnegie Mellon (School of Computer Science, Language Technologies Institute) and was a senior researcher at the Perseus Project of Tufts University.
53. No Biography Found
54. No Biography Found
55. Prof. Nikolic received the Dipl.Ing. and M.Sc. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Belgrade, Serbia, in 1992 and 1994, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from the University of California at Davis in 1999.  
He lectured electronics courses at the University of Belgrade from 1992 to 1996. He spent two years with Silicon Systems, Inc., Texas Instruments Storage Products Group, San Jose, CA, working on disk-drive signal processing electronics.  In 1999, he joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California at Berkeley, where he is now a Professor. His research activities include digital and analog integrated circuit design and VLSI implementation of communications and signal processing algorithms.  He is co-author of the book Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective, 2nd ed, Prentice-Hall, 2003.
Dr. Nikolić received the NSF CAREER award in 2003, College of Engineering Best Doctoral Dissertation Prize and Anil K. Jain Prize for the Best Doctoral Dissertation in Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of California at Davis in 1999, as well as the City of Belgrade Award for the Best Diploma Thesis in 1992.  For work with his students and colleagues he has received the best paper awards at the IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference, Symposium on VLSI Circuits, IEEE International SOI Conference, European Solid-State Device Research Conference, and the ACM/IEEE International Symposium of Low-Power Electronics.
56. Alexei (Alyosha) Efros joined UC Berkeley in 2013.   Prior to that, he was for a decade on the faculty of Carnegie Mellon University, and has also been affiliated with École Normale Supérieure/INRIA and University of Oxford.  His research is in the area of computer vision and computer graphics, 
especially at the intersection of the two. He is particularly interested 
in using data-driven techniques to tackle problems where large quantities of unlabeled visual data are readily 
available. Efros received his PhD in 2003 from UC Berkeley. He is a recipient of 
CVPR Best Paper Award (2006),  Sloan Fellowship 
(2008), Guggenheim Fellowship (2008), Okawa Grant (2008), SIGGRAPH Significant New Researcher 
Award (2010), three PAMI Helmholtz Test-of-Time Prizes (1999,2003,2005), the ACM Prize in Computing (2016), Diane McEntyre Award for Excellence in Teaching Computer Science (2019), Jim and Donna Gray Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching of Computer Science (2023), and PAMI Thomas S. Huang Memorial Prize (2023).
57. EECS Prof. Claire Tomlin holds the James and Katherine Lau Chair in Engineering  Her research interests include hybrid systems, distributed and decentralized optimization, and control theory, with an emphasis on applications, unmanned aerial vehicles, air traffic control and modeling of biological processes. She taught at Stanford University from 1998 to-2007 where she was a director of the Hybrid Systems Laboratory and held joint positions in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the Department of Electrical Engineering.   She was awarded a MacArthur Genius grant in 2006 and the IEEE Transportation Technologies Award in 2017 "for contributions to air transportation systems, focusing on collision avoidance protocol design and avionics safety verification"
58. No Biography Found
59. No Biography Found
60. Jessica Boles is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley (UCB). She received her Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where she led a team focused on piezoelectric-based power electronics in the Power Electronics Research Group. She previously received her B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville (UTK) in 2015 and 2017, respectively. Her research interests span power electronic circuits, components, and control, along with applications enabled by such.
61. I am currently a Young Investigator at AI2 on the Mosaic team (led by Yejin Choi), based in Seattle, WA. In July 2023, I will join UC Berkeley EECS as an Assistant Professor.
62. No Biography Found
63. Christian Borgs is Professor in the Berkeley AI Research Group (BAIR) in the EECS department at Berkeley.
64. My research is in theoretical computer science, with an emphasis on quantum computing. More specifically, I work on quantum state learning, quantum complexity theory, property testing, and approximation algorithms.
65. Armando Fox is a Professor in Berkeley's Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Department as well as the Faculty Advisor for Digital Learning Strategy in the office of the Vice Chancellor for Undergraduate Education (VCUE). His current : is at the intersection of digital learning (especially but not exclusively in Computer Science), programming systems, and software engineering. He co-designed and co-taught Berkeley's first Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) and serves as Faculty Advisor to the :.  He also serves on edX's Technical Advisory Committee, helping to set the technical direction of their open MOOC platform. In 2015, he received the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award for his contributions to MOOCs, in particular in software engineering education, where his contributions include co-authoring the award-winning textbook : with Turing Award winner Prof. David Patterson.
66. Alessandro Chiesa was born in Varese, Italy, in 1987.  He joined the EECS faculty at UC Berkeley in the summer of 2015 and currently conducts research in the areas of complexity theory, cryptography, and security, focusing on the theoretical foundations and practical implementations of zero knowledge proofs that are short and easy to verify. Chiesa is an author of libsnark, a C++ library for zkSNARKs, which is the leading open-source library for succinct zero knowledge proofs.  He is a co-inventor of Zerocash, a new protocol that provides a privacy-preserving version of a cryptocurrency, and a co-founder of Zcash, a digital currency with strong privacy features.  Both endeavors rely on libsnark.  He is also a co-founder and chief scientist at StarkWare Industries, which uses succinct, transparent, zero knowledge cryptographic proofs to solve the inherent problems of blockchains – scalability and privacy.
67. Jitendra Malik is Arthur J. Chick Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California at Berkeley, where he also holds appointments in vision science, cognitive science and Bioengineering. He received the PhD degree in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1985 following which he joined UC Berkeley as a faculty member. He served as Chair of the Computer Science Division during 2002-2006, and of the Department of EECS during 2004-2006.
68. He was formerly Chief Technology Officer of TSMC and is best known for contributions to IC reliability,  BSIM SPICE models, and the FinFET transistor.
He has received the US National Medal of Technology and Innovation from President Barack Obama and UC Bekeley's Distinguished Teaching Award.
69. Elad Alon joined the University of California at Berkeley in Jan. 2007, where he is now a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences as well as a co-director of the Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC). He has held founding, consulting, or visiting positions at Locix, Lion Semiconductor, Cadence, Xilinx, Sun Labs, Intel, AMD, Rambus, Hewlett Packard, and IBM Research, where he worked on digital, analog, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for computing, high-speed communications, and test and measurement. Dr. Alon received the IBM Faculty Award in 2008, the 2009 Hellman Family Faculty Fund Award, the 2010 and 2017 UC Berkeley Electrical Engineering Outstanding Teaching Award, the 2010 ISSCC Jack Raper Award for Outstanding Technology Directions Paper, the 2011 Symposium on VLSI Circuits Best Student Paper Award, the 2012 and 2013 Custom Integrated Circuits Conference Best Student Paper Award, the 2015 Custom Integrated Circuits Conference Best Invited Paper Award, and the IEEE Symposium on VLSI Circuits Most Frequently Cited Paper Award for 2010-2016. His research focuses on energy-efficient integrated systems, including the circuit, device, communications, and optimization techniques used to design them.
70. Ming C. Wu is Nortel Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at University of California, Berkeley, and Co-Director of Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center (BSAC) and Berkeley Emerging Technologies Research Center (BETR). He received B.S. from National Taiwan University in 1983 and Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1988. Prior to joining the faculty at Berkeley, Dr. Wu has conducted research at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey (1988-1992) and the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) (1992-2004). Dr. Wu has published over 600 papers in journals and conferences and holds 35 US patents in Optical MEMS, optofluidics, silicon photonics and optoelectronics. In 1997, Prof. Wu co-founded OMM, Inc. to commercialize MEMS optical switches. OMM became the first company to supply Telcordia-qualified 8x8 and 16x16 switches. Recently, Prof. Wu has pushed the size of optical switches to 240x240 by combining MEMS with silicon photonics. In 2011, Prof. Wu co-founded Berkeley Lights, Inc. (NASDAQ:BLI) to commercialize optoelectronic tweezers (OET) invented by his group. The OET instrument is capable of sorting, cloning, culturing, analyzing antibody secretions of tens of thousands of single cells on a single optofluidic chip. The OET instruments have been used by major pharmaceutical companies for antibody discovery, cell line development, and synthetic biology.
71. No Biography Found
72. Preeya Khanna received a B.S.E in Bioengineering and Mathematics from the University of Pennsylvania in 2012, and a Ph.D in the Joint Graduate Group in Bioengineering from UC Berkeley and UCSF in 2017. She completed her postdoctoral training in the Department of Neurology at UCSF. Her research combines sensorimotor systems neuroscience, network modeling, and neurotechnology development with the goal of uncovering principles of how distributed brain networks coordinate to control skillful dexterous movements. These principles are then leveraged to design neurophysiologically-grounded brain-machine interface therapies such as neurofeedback and myoelectric feedback paradigms, and neuromodulation approaches for restoring movement control in patients with damaged sensorimotor systems.
73. No Biography Found
74. Robert Pilawa-Podgurski is currently an Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences Department at the University of California, Berkeley. Previously, he was an Associate Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. He received his BS, MEng, and PhD degrees from MIT. He performs research in the area of power electronics. His research interests include renewable energy applications, electric vehicles, energy harvesting, CMOS power management, high density and high efficiency power converters, and advanced control of power converters. Dr. Pilawa-Podgurski received the Chorafas Award for outstanding MIT EECS Master’s thesis, the Google Faculty Research Award in 2013, and the 2014 Richard M. Bass Outstanding Young Power Electronics Engineer Award of the IEEE Power Electronics Society, given annually to one individual for outstanding contributions to the field of power electronics before the age of 35. In 2015, he received the Air Force Office of Scientific Research Young Investigator Award, the UIUC Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research in 2016, the UIUC Campus Distinguished Promotion Award in 2017, and the UIUC ECE Ronald W. Pratt Faculty Outstanding Teaching Award in 2017. He was the 2018 recipient of the IEEE Education Society Mac E. Van Valkenburg Award given for outstanding contributions to teaching unusually early in ones career. In 2023, he received the UC Berkeley EECS department Electrical Engineering Outstanding Teaching Award. He is co-author of fourteen IEEE prize papers.
75. James F. O’Brien is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley.  His research interests include graphics, computer animation, simulations of physical systems, and the forensic analysis of images and video. He has authored numerous papers on these topics. In addition to his research pursuits, Prof. O'Brien has worked with film and game companies on integrating advanced simulation physics into games and special effects. His methods for destruction modeling have been used in over 200 feature films and AAA game titles. In 2015 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences recognized his work in destruction modeling with an Academy Award for Technical Achievement. He received his doctorate from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2000, the same year he joined the faculty at UC Berkeley. Professor O'Brien is a Sloan Fellow, has been selected as one of Technology Review's TR-100, and has been awarded research fellowships from the Okawa and Hellman Foundations. He previously served as ACM SIGGRAPH Director at Large and was Chief Scientist at Avametric (acquired by Gerber Technology in 2018).
76. Katz was born in Brooklyn, New York. He was first exposed to computers in his high school's well equipped laboratory. Katz received an A.B. from Cornell University (May 1976), where he was a Cornell College Scholar majoring in Computer Science and Mathematics, an M.S. from UC Berkeley (June 1978), under the direction of Larry Rowe, and a Ph.D., from UC Berkeley (June 1980), under the direction of Eugene Wong. He was a member of the Ingres Database Project.
77. Jose M. Carmena is the Chancellor's Professor of Electrical Engineering and Neuroscience at the University of California-Berkeley, and Co-Director of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses at UC Berkeley and UCSF. His research program in neural engineering and systems neuroscience is aimed at understanding the neural basis of sensorimotor learning and control, and at building the science and engineering base that will allow the creation of reliable neuroprosthetic systems for the severely disabled. Dr. Carmena received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Polytechnic University of Valencia (Spain) in 1995 and the University of Valencia (Spain) in 1997. Following those he received the M.S. degree in artificial intelligence and the Ph.D. degree in robotics both from the University of Edinburgh (Scotland, UK) in 1998 and 2002 respectively. From 2002 to 2005 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Department of Neurobiology and the Center for Neuroengineering at Duke University (Durham, NC). He is Fellow of the IEEE and member of the Society for Neuroscience, and the Neural Control of Movement Society. Dr. Carmena has been the recipient of the McKnight Technological Innovations in Neuroscience Award (2017), Bakar Fellowship (2012), the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society Early Career Achievement Award (2011), the Aspen Brain Forum Prize in Neurotechnology (2010), the National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2010), the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship (2009), the Okawa Foundation Research Grant Award (2007), the UC Berkeley Hellman Faculty Award (2007), and the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship (2003).
78. Christopher Hunn earned a Bachelor's in Cognitive Science (Neuroscience Track) from UC Berkeley, a Biological Sciences Education credential from Cal State East Bay, and has done doctoral-level coursework in Policy Organization Measurement and Evaluation at Berkeley.  He started work in the EECS department at UC Berkeley in 2012, and worked his way up from Graduate Student Advisor to CS Advisor and Undergraduate Affairs Supervisor, then to Director of Undergraduate Affairs in Computer Science, and finally to EECS Director of Undergraduate Instruction in 2017.  Before coming to work at Berkeley, Hunn spent five years at the West Contra Costa Unified School District from 2005 to 2009, and was an instructor and curriculum developer at NASA Ames Research Center from 2000 to 2002.
79. Research interests: development of physics-inspired machine learning methods, geometric deep learning, optimization, scientific applications of machine learning
80. In addition to his position on campus, Scott is a researcher at the International Computer Science Institute. Scott Shenker spent his academic youth studying theoretical physics but soon gave up chaos theory for computer science. Continuing to display a remarkably short attention span, his research over the years has wandered from performance modeling and networking to game theory and economics. Unable to focus on any single topic, his current research projects include software-defined networking, network function virtualization, network algorithms and protocols, cluster programming models, and Internet architecture. Unable to hold a steady job, he currently splits his time between the UC Berkeley Computer Science Division and the International Computer Science Institute.
81. Thomas Courtade is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. Before joining Berkeley in 2014, Thomas was at Stanford University, where he was supported by a postdoctoral fellowship through the NSF Center for Science of Information. He graduated summa cum laude with a B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from Michigan Technological University in 2007, and received his M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from UCLA in 2008 and 2012, respectively.  Thomas' research interests lie in the intersection of information theory and computer science, and he focuses on problems and applications therein.
82. No Biography Found
83. Duncan Callaway is an Associate Professor of Energy and Resources with an affiliate (i.e. "below the line") appointment in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.  He is also a Faculty Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.  He received his PhD from Cornell University and subsequently worked in the energy industry, first at Davis Energy Group and later at PowerLight Corporation. He was a member of the research faculty of the Center for Sustainable Systems at the University of Michigan before joining UC Berkeley.  Dr. Callaway’s teaching covers energy systems with a focus on the electrical grid and energy efficiency.  His research group focuses on emerging energy technologies by quantifying their impacts on power system operations and developing control, optimization and data analysis tools to facilitate their integration into power systems.
84. Besides my post as an Adjunct Associate Professor with EECS at Cal Berkeley since 2017, I also work for the industry. I am currently a Senior Director at MediaTek USA since 2008. I am in charge of developing various CMOS RF SoC technologies and products for cellular (2G, 3G, 5G mmWave), Broadcast (TV tuners, FM) and connectivity (WiFi, BT, GPS/GNSS, NFC) resulting in a multi-billion dollar revenue with more than 20M units per month production shipments. Between 1995-2008, I held various IC design positions at Radio Comm. Corp., National Semiconductor, and Maxim Integrated Products, where I led many successful RF wireless designs for PCS, CDMA, WCDMA, WLAN and WiMax. In 2005, I was a visiting professor at the University of California Berkeley where I taught an advanced circuit design class for wireless communications. I currently serve on the Technical Program and Steering Committees for the IEEE RFIC Symposium. I am a former Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, a Guest Editor for the IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits, and a Distinguished Lecturer for the IEEE Solid State Circuits Society. I am a senior IEEE member since 2003 and hold over 30 issued patents.
85. Robert Full completed his undergraduate studies at SUNY Buffalo in 1979. He also did his graduate work at SUNY Buffalo, receiving a master's degree in 1982 and a doctoral degree in 1984. He held a research and teaching post doctoral position at The University of Chicago from 1984 to 1986 during which time he did research at Harvard University. In 1986 he joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley as an Assistant Professor of Zoology. He was promoted to Associate Professor of Integrative Biology in 1991, and to Full Professor of Integrative Biology in 1995, a position he holds today. In 1996 he was given a Distinguished Teaching Award. In 1997 Professor Full became a Chancellor's Professor and the director of a new biological visualization center. In 1998 Professor Full received a Goldman Professorship for teaching.  In 2011, he became a Fellow of the American Academy for the Advancement of Science.
86. Aditya Parameswaran develops systems for "human-in-the-loop" data analytics — making it easy for end-users and teams to leverage and make sense of their large and complex datasets — by synthesizing techniques from database systems, data mining, and human-computer interaction. His tools span the gamut from scalable spreadsheets (DataSpread) and visualization recommendation systems (Zenvisage), to interactive machine learning (Helix) and data versioning (Orpheus) systems.
87. Dawn Song is a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at UC Berkeley. Her research interest lies in deep learning and security. She has studied diverse security and privacy issues in computer systems and networks, including areas ranging from software security, networking security, database security, distributed systems security, applied cryptography, to the intersection of machine learning and security. She is the recipient of various awards including the MacArthur Fellowship, the Guggenheim Fellowship, the NSF CAREER Award, the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, the MIT Technology Review TR-35 Award, the George Tallman Ladd Research Award, the Okawa Foundation Research Award, the Li Ka Shing Foundation Women in Science Distinguished Lecture Series Award, the Faculty Research Award from IBM, Google and other major tech companies, and Best Paper Awards from top conferences. She obtained her Ph.D. degree from UC Berkeley. Prior to joining UC Berkeley as a faculty, she was an Assistant Professor at Carnegie Mellon University from 2002 to 2007.
88. No Biography Found
89. Professor Joseph is a Chancellor's Professor at UC Berkeley. His primary research interests are in Genomics, Secure Machine Learning, Datacenters, mobile/distributed computing, and wireless communications (networking and telephony). He is part of the RISE Lab.
90. Sayeef Salahuddin is the TSMC Distinguished professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California Berkeley.  Salahuddin received his B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from BUET (Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology) in 2003 and PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Purdue University in 2007. He joined the faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at University of California, Berkeley in 2008.
91. Michael (Miki) Lustig is a slightly above average Professor in EECS with well below average sense of humor. He joined the faculty of the EECS Department at UC Berkeley in Spring 2010. He received his B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from the Technion, Israel Institute of Technology in 2002. He received his Msc and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 2004 and 2008, respectively. His research focuses on computational imaging methods in medical imaging, particularly Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Miki is a jolly good Fellow of the Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.
92. Dan Garcia (UC Berkeley MS 1995, PhD 2000) is a Teaching Professor in
the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department at UC
Berkeley. Selected as an ACM Distinguished Educator in 2012 and ACM
Distinguished Speaker in 2019, he has won all four of the department's
computer science teaching awards, and holds the record for the highest
teaching effectiveness ratings in the history of several of the
department's courses.
93. No Biography Found
94. Ali Javey received a Ph.D. degree in chemistry from Stanford University in 2005, and was a Junior Fellow of the Harvard Society of Fellows from 2005 to 2006. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley where he is currently a professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences. He is also a senior faculty scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory where he serves as the program leader of Electronic Materials (E-Mat). He is the co-director of Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center (BSAC).
95. Prof. Arias received her PhD in Physics from the University of Cambridge, UK in 2001. Prior to that, she received her master and bachelor degrees in Physics from the Federal University of Paraná in Curitiba, Brazil in 1997 and 1995 respectively.
96. Boubacar Kante is the inaugural Chenming Hu endowed Chaired Associate Professor at UC Berkeley. His multidisciplinary research interests are in the areas of wave-matter interaction from microwave to optics and related fields such as antennas, nanophotonics, novel materials, and quantum optics.
97. Murat Arcak's research is in control theory, autonomous systems, and multi-agent systems, with applications in transportation, energy, and biology. He  received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2003, the : from the American Automatic Control Council in 2006, the : from the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) in 2007, and the : from the IEEE Control Systems Society in 2014. He is a member of SIAM and a fellow of IEEE and International Federation of Automatic Control (IFAC).
98. No Biography Found
99. Niloufar Salehi is an Assistant Professor at the School of Information at UC, Berkeley. Her research interests are in social computing, technologically mediated collective action, digital labor, and more broadly, human-computer-interaction (HCI). Her work has been published and received awards in premier venues in HCI including ACM CHI and CSCW. Through building computational social systems in collaboration with existing communities, controlled experiments, and ethnographic fieldwork, her research contributes the design of alternative social configurations online.
100. Ren Ng is a professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley. His research interests are in imaging, graphics, computer vision, human vision and artificial intelligence.  Prior to Berkeley, Ren was founder and CEO of Lytro, Inc., which commercialized his Ph.D. research and brought consumer light field cameras to market. Ren completed his Ph.D. in computer science at Stanford University, and received the ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award and Stanford's Arthur Samuel Award.  Ren has received the 2020 ECCV Best Paper Honorable Mention, Jim and Donna Gray Faculty Award for Undergraduate Teaching, Hellman Faculty Fellowship, Sloan Research Fellowship, the HIPA Photographic Research Award, PMDA Technical Achievement Award, R.I.T.'s Imaging Hall of Fame, the Selwyn Award from the Royal Photographic Society, MIT Tech Review's TR35 and Entrepreneur of the Year, Fast Company's 100 Most Creative People in Business, and Silicon Valley Journal's 40 under 40.
101. Raluca Ada Popa is an associate professor of computer science at UC Berkeley. She is interested in security, systems, and applied cryptography. Raluca developed practical systems that protect data confidentiality by computing over encrypted data, as well as designed new encryption schemes that underlie these systems. Some of her systems have been adopted into or inspired systems such as SEEED of SAP AG, Microsoft SQL Server’s Always Encrypted Service, and others.  Raluca received her PhD in computer science as well as her two BS degrees, in computer science and in mathematics, from MIT. She is the recipient of an Intel Early Career Faculty Honor award, George M. Sprowls Award for best MIT CS doctoral thesis, a Google PhD Fellowship, a Johnson award for best CS Masters of Engineering thesis from MIT, and a CRA Outstanding undergraduate award from the ACM.
102. Ion Stoica is a Professor in the EECS Department at the University of California at Berkeley, where he holds the Xu Bao Chancellor's Chair and is the Director of SkyLab (https://sky.cs.berkeley.edu/). He is currently doing research on cloud computing and AI systems. Past work includes Ray, Apache Spark, Apache Mesos, Tachyon, Chord DHT, and Dynamic Packet State (DPS). He is an Honorary Member of the Romanian Academy, an ACM Fellow and has received numerous awards, including the Mark Weiser Award (2019), SIGOPS Hall of Fame Award (2015), and several "Test of Time" awards. He also co-founded three companies, Anyscale (2019), Databricks (2013) and Conviva (2006).
103. He obtained his B.Sc. in Physics and Computing Science from Simon Fraser University, 1990, and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University, the latter in 1997. He joined the Computer Science Division of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley in 1998.
104. No Biography Found
105. Greg Tikhomirov is a new faculty in EECS, with a background in chemistry, bioengineering, medicine, and nanotechnology. He has a longstanding dream to engineer life-like artificial systems, motivated by the realization that incomprehensible natural complexity arises from comprehensible fundamental laws. Ti Lab at Berkeley will pursue design and fabrication of devices with atomic precision by combining the strengths of rational top-down engineering and bottom-up biomolecular assembly. A key goal is to adopt the powerful but still proof-of-concept self-assembly approaches of DNA nanotechnology to engineer new, useful devices.
106. Alp Sipahigil is the Ping & Amy Chao Family Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. He has joint appointments as a Faculty Scientist at the Materials Sciences Division at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a supporting appointment at UC Berkeley Physics.
107. Michel M. Maharbiz is a Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley. His research focuses on the extreme miniaturization of technology focused on building synthetic interfaces to cells and organisms. He is one of the inventors of "neural dust", an ultrasonic interface for vanishingly small implants in the body. His group is also known for developing the world’s first remotely radio-controlled cyborg beetles. This was named one of the top ten emerging technologies of 2009 by MIT’s Technology Review (TR10) and was in Time Magazine’s Top 50 Inventions of 2009. Prof. Maharbiz received his B.S. from Cornell University and his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley under nanotechnologist Professor Roger T. Howe (EECS) and synthetic biologist Professor Jay D. Keasling (ChemE); his thesis work led to the foundation of Microreactor Technologies, Inc. which was acquired in 2009 by Pall Corporation. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE (Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society) and a member of the Society for Neuroscience. Prof. Maharbiz is a Chan-Zuckerberg (CZ) Biohub Investigator (2017), a Bakar Fellow (2014), recipient of a National Science Foundation CAREER Award (2009), a GE Scholar and an Intel IMAP Fellow. Michel’s long term goal is understanding developmental mechanisms as a way to engineer and fabricate machines.
108. No Biography Found
109. Aydın Buluç is a Senior Scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) and an Adjunct Assistant Professor of EECS at UC Berkeley. His research interests include parallel computing, combinatorial scientific computing, high performance graph analysis and machine learning, sparse matrix computations, computational biology. Previously, he was a Luis W. Alvarez postdoctoral fellow at LBNL and a visiting scientist at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing. He received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2010 and his BS in Computer Science and Engineering from Sabanci University, Turkey in 2005. Dr. Buluç is a recipient of the DOE Early Career Award in 2013 and the IEEE TCSC Award for Excellence for Early Career Researchers in 2015. He is also a founding associate editor of the ACM Transactions on Parallel Computing.
110. Angjoo Kanazawa is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. She leads the Kanazawa AI Research (KAIR) lab under BAIR and serves on the advisory board of Wonder Dynamics. She earned her BA in Mathematics and Computer Science from NYU working with Rob Fergus, and her PhD in Computer Science at the University of Maryland, College Park, where she was advised by David Jacobs. While in graduate school, she visited the Max Planck Institute in Tübingen, Germany, under the guidance of Michael Black.  Before taking up her current teaching post, she worked as a Research Scientist at Google Research, and as a BAIR postdoc at UC Berkeley advised by Jitendra Malik, Alexei A. Efros and Trevor Darrell.
111. Stuart Russell received his B.A. with first-class honours in physics from Oxford University in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford in 1986. He then joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley, where he is Professor (and formerly Chair) of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and holder of the Smith-Zadeh Chair in Engineering. He is also an Adjunct Professor of Neurological Surgery at UC San Francisco and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Council on AI and Robotics.
112. Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing.  Principal fields of interest: Cryptography, Computational Number Theory, Complexity Theory, Fault Tolerant Distributed Computing, Probabilistic Proof Systems, Approximation Algorithms.
113. He received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from SUNY, Buffalo, 1977, a M.S. in EE from the University of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign, 1979, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the California Institute of Technology, 1987.  Prior to joining the EECS faculty in 1988 he was a consultant at Schlumberger Palo Alto Research.  Honors and awards include the Charles Lee Powell Fellowship, 1985; the NASA Certificate of Recognition, 1983; and the Rensselaer Engineering and Science Medal, 1975.
114. Avishay Tal is a member of Berkeley's Theory Group.  He received his Ph.D. in 2015 from the Weizmann Institute of Science under the guidance of Ran Raz. Prior to that, he completed a Master's degree at the Technion under the guidance of Amir Shpilka. He has held postdoctoral appointments at the Institute for Advanced Study (hosted by Avi Wigderson), Simons Institute (as part of the Lower Bounds in Computational Complexity program), and Stanford University (hosted by Omer Reingold). 
His research interests are in computational complexity, analysis of boolean functions, circuit complexity, formula complexity, query complexity, pseudorandomness, learning, combinatorics, quantum computing, and the connections between algorithms and lower bounds.
115. No Biography Found
116. Anant Sahai did his undergraduate work in EECS at UC Berkeley, and then went to MIT as a graduate student studying Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (Course 6 in MIT-speak). After graduating with his PhD, and before joining the Berkeley faculty, he was on the theoretical/algorithmic side of a team at the startup Enuvis, Inc. developing new adaptive software radio techniques for GPS in very low SNR environments (such as those encountered indoors in urban areas).
117. Laura Waller leads the Computational Imaging Lab, which develops new methods for optical imaging, with optics and computational algorithms designed jointly. She holds the Ted Van Duzer Endowed Professorship and is a Senior Fellow at the Berkeley Institute of Data Science (BIDS), with affiliations in Bioengineering and Applied Sciences & Technology. Laura was a Postdoctoral Researcher and Lecturer of Physics at Princeton University from 2010-2012 and received BS, MEng and PhD degrees from MIT in 2004, 2005 and 2010, respectively. She is a Moore Foundation Data-Driven Investigator, Bakar fellow, Distinguished Graduate Student Mentoring awardee, NSF CAREER awardee, Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub Investigator, SPIE Early Career Achievement Awardee and Packard Fellow.
118. Martin Wainwright is currently a professor at University of California at Berkeley, with a joint appointment between the Department of Statistics and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS).  He received a Bachelor's degree in Mathematics from University of Waterloo, Canada, and Ph.D. degree in EECS from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).  His research interests include high-dimensional statistics, information theory, statistical machine learning, and optimization theory. He has been awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship (2005), Best Paper Awards from the IEEE Signal Processing Society (2008), and IEEE Communications Society (2010); the Joint Paper Prize (2012) from IEEE Information Theory and Communication Societies; a Medallion Lectureship (2013) from the Institute of Mathematical Statistics; a Section Lecturer at the International Congress of Mathematicians (2014); and the COPSS Presidents' Award (2014) from the Joint Statistical Societies.
119. Professor Pieter Abbeel is Director of the Berkeley Robot Learning Lab and Co-Director of the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence (BAIR) Lab. Abbeel’s research strives to build ever more intelligent systems, which has his lab push the frontiers of deep reinforcement learning, deep imitation learning, deep unsupervised learning, transfer learning, meta-learning, and learning to learn, as well as study the influence of AI on society.  His lab also investigates how AI could advance other science and engineering disciplines.  Abbeel's Intro to AI class has been taken by over 100K students through edX, and his Deep RL and Deep Unsupervised Learning materials are standard references for AI researchers.  Abbeel has founded three companies: Gradescope (AI to help teachers with grading homework and exams), Covariant (AI for robotic automation of warehouses and factories), and Berkeley Open Arms (low-cost, highly capable 7-dof robot arms), advises many AI and robotics start-ups, and is a frequently sought after speaker worldwide for C-suite sessions on AI future and strategy.  Abbeel has received many awards and honors, including the PECASE, NSF-CAREER, ONR-YIP, Darpa-YFA, TR35.  His work is frequently featured in the press, including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, BBC, Rolling Stone, Wired, and Tech Review.
120. Umesh Vazirani is the Roger A. Strauch Professor of EECS and the co-director of the Berkeley Quantum Computation Center (BQIC). His research interests lie primarily in quantum computing.
121. Brian A. Barsky is Professor of the Graduate School at the University of California, Berkeley with faculty affiliations in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS), Optometry, Vision Science, Bioengineering, Berkeley Institute of Design (BID), Berkeley Center for New Media (BCNM), Arts Research Center (ARC), and Berkeley Canadian Studies Program.
122. No Biography Found
123. Professor Darrell is on the faculty of the CS Division at UC Berkeley.  His group develops algorithms to enable visual recognition across a variety of platforms and applications.  His interests include computer vision, machine learning, computer graphics, and perception-based human computer interfaces.  Prof. Darrell was on the faculty of the MIT EECS department from 1999-2008, where he directed the Vision Interface Group. He was a member of the research staff at Interval Research Corporation from 1996-1999, and received the S.M. and Ph.D. degrees from MIT in 1992 and 1996, respectively.  He obtained the B.S.E. degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1988, having started his career in computer vision as an undergraduate researcher in Ruzena Bajcsy’s GRASP lab.
124. I am a Professor at the University of California, Berkeley with a joint appointment in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences and the School of Information. My research focuses on digital forensics, forensic science, misinformation, image analysis, and human perception. I received my undergraduate degree in Computer Science and Applied Mathematics from the University of Rochester in 1989, and my Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Pennsylvania in 1997. Following a two-year post-doctoral fellowship in Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT, I joined the faculty at Dartmouth College in 1999 where I remained until 2019. I am the recipient of an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, and am a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors.
125. Bin Yu is Chancellor’s Professor in the Departments of Statistics and of Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences at the University of California  at Berkeley.  Her current research interests focus on statistics and  machine learning theory, methodologies, and algorithms for solving high-dimensional data problems. Her group is engaged in interdisciplinary research with scientists from genomics, neuroscience, and remote sensing.
126. Anca runs the InterACT lab, focusing on enabling robots to work with, around, and in support of people.  Her goal is for robots to autonomously generate their behavior in a way that moves beyond functionality and formally accounts for interaction with humans.  This combines optimal control, machine learning, and cognitive science, with applications in collaborative manipulation and autonomous driving. Anca got her PhD in the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University on planning intent-expressive robot motion.
127. Professor Klein's research focuses on statistical natural
language processing, including unsupervised learning methods, syntactic parsing, information extraction, and machine translation.  For specific projects and publications, see
128. No Biography Found
129. is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Berkeley,
whose work focuses on data-centric systems and the way they drive computing. 
He is an : 
and the recipient of two 
: 
awards for his research.  
In 2010, Fortune Magazine included him in their list of 50
: magazine included his work on 
: 
list of the 10 technologies "most likely to change our world". Key ideas from his research have been incorporated into commercial and open-source software from IBM, Oracle, and PostgreSQL.  He is a past director of Intel Research Berkeley, and currently serves on the technical advisory boards of a number of computing and Internet companies.
130. Peter Bartlett is a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and the Department of Statistics and Head of Google Research Australia. Since 2020, he has been Director of the Foundations of Data Science Institute and Director of the Collaboration on the Theoretical Foundations of Deep Learning. His research interests include machine learning and statistical learning theory. He is the co-author of the book :. He has served as an associate editor of the journals :, and as program committee co-chair for :. He has served as the Associate Director of the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing and has been a Professor in Mathematical Sciences at the Queensland University of Technology, a Miller Institute Visiting Research Professor in Statistics and Computer Science at U.C. Berkeley, a fellow, senior fellow, and professor in the Research School of Information Sciences and Engineering at the Australian National University's Institute for Advanced Studies, an honorary professor at the University of Queensland and a visiting professor at the University of Paris. He was awarded the Malcolm McIntosh Prize for Physical Scientist of the Year in 2001, and was chosen as an Institute of Mathematical Statistics Medallion Lecturer in 2008, an IMS Fellow and Australian Laureate Fellow in 2011, and a Fellow of the ACM in 2018. He was elected to the Australian Academy of Science in 2015.
131. No Biography Found
132. Avideh Zakhor is currently  Qualcomm Chair and professor in EECS at U.C. Berkeley. Her areas of interest include theories and applications of signal, image and video processing and 3D computer vision. She has won a number of best paper awards, including the IEEE Signal Processing Society in 1997 and 2009, IEEE Circuits and Systems Society in 1997 and 1999 and IEEE Solid Circuits Society in 2008.
133. He received a double B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Physics, 1987, M.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, 1993, and a PhD in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Minor in Physics, 1998, all from M.I.T.
134. He received his B.Sc. in Computer Science and Theoretical Physics from Adelaide University in South Australia, 1979, a B.E. (Hons) in Electrical Engineering, Adelaide University, 1980, an M.S. and a Ph.D. from M.I.T, 1983 and 1987, respectively.  He joined the faculty of EECS in 1987. He is the author of "A Variational Approach to Edge Detection" and the creator of the widely used Canny edge detector.
135. No Biography Found
136. No Biography Found
137. He received his B.S. in Mathematics from Caltech in 1975 and his Ph.D. in Computer Science from UC Berkeley in 1983. After spending six years on the faculty of the Courant Institute, New York University; he joined the Computer Science Division and Mathematics Departments at Berkeley in 1990, where he holds joint appointments.
138. Vladimir Stojanović is a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at University of California, Berkeley. His research interests include design of electronic-photonic systems-on-chip for compute, communication and sensing applications. He is also interested in design methodologies for analog-mixed signal and VLSI circuits, with advanced CMOS and emerging device technologies. 
Vladimir received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 2005, and the Dipl. Ing. degree from the University of Belgrade, Serbia in 1998. He was also with Rambus, Inc., Los Altos, CA, from 2001 through 2004 and with MIT as Associate Professor from 2005-2013. He received the 2006 IBM Faculty Partnership Award, and the 2009 NSF CAREER Award as well as the 2008 ICCAD William J. McCalla, 2008 IEEE Transactions on Advanced Packaging, and 2010 ISSCC Jack Raper best paper awards. He was an IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Distinguished Lecturer for the 2012-2013 term. He is a co-founder of NanoSemi (now MaxLinear), Ayar Labs and Numericcal.
139. Babak Ayazifar joined the EECS faculty at UC Berkeley in 2005, where he is now a Teaching Professor.  He earned his BS in EE from Caltech, and his SM and PhD in EECS from MIT.  His dissertation, :, uses spectral graph theory to explore how a network's topology influences its dynamics.
140. Professor Bruno Olshausen is a Professor in the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, the School of Optometry, and has a below-the-line affiliated appointment in EECS.  He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, and a Ph.D. in Computation and Neural Systems from the California Institute of Technology.  He did his postdoctoral work in the Department of Psychology at Cornell University and at the Center for Biological and Computational Learning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  From 1996-2005 he was on the faculty in the Center for Neuroscience at UC Davis, and in 2005 he moved to UC Berkeley.  He also directs the Redwood Center for Theoretical Neuroscience, a multidisciplinary research group focusing on building mathematical and computational models of brain function (see http://redwood.berkeley.edu).
141. Alberto Sangiovanni Vincentelli is the Edgar L. and Harold H. Buttner Chair of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California at Berkeley. In 1980-1981, he was a Visiting Scientist at the Mathematical Sciences Department of the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center. In 1987, he was Visiting Professor at MIT. He is an author of over 800 papers, 17 books and 2 patents in the area of design tools and methodologies, large scale systems, embedded systems, hybrid systems and innovation.
He was a co-founder of Cadence and Synopsys, the two leading companies in the area of Electronic Design Automation and the founder and Scientific Director of the PARADES Research Center in Rome.
142. Jun-Chau Chien is an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Weber Family Engineering Faculty Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. His research focuses on analog/mixed-signal integrated circuits, bioelectronics, and RF/mmWave high-speed ICs. He is also interested in biosensor designs, molecular engineering, and techniques to couple semiconductor technologies with advanced biotechnologies for new platform development.
143. Dr. Gerald Friedland is now CTO and co-founder of Brainome, Inc. Previously he was Principal Data Scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Lab. Before that, he had been with the International Computer Science Institute for 10 years. His work focusses on large-scale video retrieval, geo-location and also privacy. He is the lead figure behind the Multimedia Commons initiative, a collection of 100M images and 1M videos for research and has published more than 200 peer-reviewed articles in conferences, journals, and books. He also co-authored a new textbook on multimedia computing with Cambridge University Press. He is associate editor for ACM Transactions on Multimedia and IEEE Multimedia Magazine and regularly reviews for IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Language Processing; IEEE Transaction on Multimedia; Springer's Machine Vision and Application; and other journals. He is the recipient of several research and industry recognitions, among them the European Academic Software Award and the Multimedia Entrepreneur Award by the German Federal Department of Economics. Dr. Friedland received his doctorate (summa cum laude) and master's degree in computer science from Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany, in 2002 and 2006, respectively.
144. Ali M. Niknejad received the Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of California, Berkeley 2000, where he is currently a professor and faculty director of the Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC).  Prof. Niknejad is an IEEE Fellow, the recipient of the 2012 ASEE Frederick Emmons Terman Award for his textbook on electromagnetics and RF integrated circuits.  He was the co-recipient of the IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (ISSCC) 2013 and 2010 Jack Kilby Awards for Outstanding Student Papers, and the co-recipient of the Outstanding Technology Directions Paper at ISSCC 2004 for co-developing a modeling approach for devices up to 65 GHz.  He is a co-founder of HMicro and the inventor of the REACH(™) technology, which has the potential to deliver robust wireless solutions to the healthcare industry.  His general research interests lie within the area of wireless communications and biomedical sensors and imaging.  His focus areas of his research include analog, RF, mixed-signal, mm-wave circuits, device physics and compact modeling, and numerical techniques in electromagnetics.
145. No Biography Found
146. I graduated from Ecole Polytechnique (Palaiseau, France) in 1985, and obtained my Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Astronautics at Stanford University in March 1990. I was a faculty member at the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Techniques Avancées (Paris, France) from 1992 until 1999 and held part-time teaching appointments at Ecole Polytechnique in the Applied Mathematics Department and at Université de Paris-I (La Sorbonne) in the Mathematics in Economy Program. In 1998, I was awarded the Bronze Medal for Engineering Sciences, from the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, France. I joined the UC Berkeley faculty in April 1999 as an Acting Associate Professor, and obtained my tenure in May 2001. I was on leave from UC from July 2003 to 2006 to work for SAC Capital Management, a hedge fund based in New York and Connecticut.
147. No Biography Found
148. Krste Asanović is a Professor in the EECS Department at the University
of California, Berkeley. He received a PhD in Computer Science from UC
Berkeley in 1998 then joined the faculty at MIT, receiving tenure in
2005.  He returned to join the faculty at Berkeley in 2007.
His main research areas are computer architecture, VLSI design,
parallel programming and operating system design. He is currently
Co-Director of the Berkeley ADEPT lab tackling the challenge of
deploying custom silicon to meet new application demands.
He leads the free RISC-V ISA project, is Chairman of the
RISC-V Foundation, and co-founded SiFive Inc. to support
commercial use of RISC-V processors.  He is also an Associate Director
at the Berkeley Wireless Research Center. He
received the NSF CAREER award, and is an ACM Fellow and an IEEE Fellow.
149. Nir Yosef is an Associate Adjunct professor at the Department of EECS and a member of the Center for Computational Biology at UC Berkeley.   He started his research group in January of 2014 after obtaining his PhD from Tel Aviv University and spending some time as a postdoc at the Broad Institute and Harvard Medical School.  The overarching goal of his research is to utilize high-throughput genomic data sets, mostly based on DNA sequencing,  in order to build models that explain how gene expression is regulated.  He is especially interested in immune cells, covering various aspects of their biology, such as their differentiation, stability/ plasticity, and response to acute stimulation.
150. No Biography Found
151. No Biography Found
152. Professor Haghtalab is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley
153. No Biography Found
154. Alexandre Bayen is the Liao-Cho Professor of Engineering at UC Berkeley. He is a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science(link is external), and Civil and Environmental Engineering(link is external). He is currently the Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies(link is external) (ITS). He is also a Faculty Scientist in Mechanical Engineering, at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory(link is external) (LBNL). He received the Engineering Degree in applied mathematics from the Ecole Polytechnique, France, in 1998, the M.S. and Ph.D. in aeronautics and astronautics from Stanford University in 1999 and 2004, respectively. He was a Visiting Researcher at NASA Ames Research Center from 2000 to 2003. Between January 2004 and December 2004, he worked as the Research Director of the Autonomous Navigation Laboratory at the Laboratoire de Recherches Balistiques et Aerodynamiques, (Ministere de la Defense, Vernon, France), where he holds the rank of Major. He has been on the faculty at UC Berkeley since 2005. Bayen has authored two books and over 200 articles in peer reviewed journals and conferences. He is the recipient of the Ballhaus Award from Stanford University, 2004, of the CAREER award from the National Science Foundation, 2009 and he is a NASA Top 10 Innovators on Water Sustainability, 2010. His projects Mobile Century and Mobile Millennium received the 2008 Best of ITS Award for ‘Best Innovative Practice’, at the ITS World Congress and a TRANNY Award from the California Transportation Foundation, 2009. Mobile Millennium has been featured more than 200 times in the media, including TV channels and radio stations (CBS, NBC, ABC, CNET, NPR, KGO, the BBC), and in the popular press (Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, LA Times). Bayen is the recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) award from the White House, 2010. He is also the recipient of the Okawa Research Grant Award, the Ruberti Prize from the IEEE, and the Huber Prize from the ASCE.
155. Stella Yu received her doctorate from the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, where she studied robotics at the Robotics Institute and vision science at the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition. She continued her computer vision research as a postdoctoral fellow at UC Berkeley, and then studied art and vision as a Clare Booth Luce Professor at Boston College, during which time she received an NSF CAREER award.  Dr. Yu is the ICSI Vision Group Director and a BIDS Senior Fellow.  Her group studies visual perception from multiple perspectives: human vision, computer vision, robotic vision, and artistic vision.
156. Prof. Sanjam Garg is an Associate Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. His research interests are in cryptography and security. He obtained his Ph.D. from the University of California, Los Angeles in 2013 and his undergraduate degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 2008. Prof. Garg is the recipient of various honors such as the ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award, the Sloan Research Fellowship and the IIT Delhi Graduates of the Last Decade Award. Prof. Garg's research has been recognized with best paper awards at EUROCRYPT 2013, CRYPTO 2017 and EUROCRYPT 2018.